# Cornucopia

### Overview

* Full CRUD REST API utilizing MongoDB and Express, deployed via Heroku

* Community web site for sharing and commenting on recipeSchema

* A place to store your recipes, allowing you to add, modify, or delete recipes; search and view others' recipes; comment on recipes


### Architecture

Error middleware: included a helper file to route all errors to. This module responds with the appropriate status codes and error messages based on the type of error.

### Schemas

#### User

The user schema contains properties that used to verify the user which are an email adress which is required and unique for evey user, a username which is also required and unique to every user, a password which in not unique but required and a unique json web token that is auto generated for each user.

#### Recipe

The recipe schema includes properties for the actual recipe content (ingredients, instructions, and optional photo url), an autogenerated date when created, as well a reference to the owning user profile. Additionally, it has a categories property that is the basis of the user search.

### Routes

#### User

Authentication for POST routes using Basic Authorization middleware

```
POST '/api/signup'
```
Required data: request body including the following fields: email, username , password.

Route creates a new user account by signing up with the given required information.

```
GET '/api/signin'
```

Required data: request authorization including username and password.

Route signs in to an already existing user account.


#### Recipe

Authorization and authentication for POST, DELETE and PUT routes: included Bearer Authorization middleware using jsonwebtoken (generated during User sign-in);

```
POST: '/api/recipe'
```

Required data: request body including the following fields: ingredients, instructions, categories.

Route creates a new recipe based on user input and references it in the user's profile Schema.

```
GET: '/api/recipe/:id'
```

Required data: recipe id in request params object.

Route fetches the recipe requested. Does not need authentication or authorization since recipes should be accessible by all users.

```
GET: '/api/recipe/:profileID'
```

Required data: profileID in request params object.

Route fetches all of a profile's recipes. Does not need authentication or authorization since recipes should be accessible by all users.

```
DELETE: '/api/recipe/:id'
```

Required data: recipe id in request params object.

Deletes a single recipe given a recipe id by the user. Also removes the recipe ID from the profile recipes property.


```
PUT: '/api/recipe/:id'
```

Required data: Recipe id and body containing updates in the request params object.

Updates a single recipe or part of a recipe.


##### Created by Braelynn Luedtke, Noah Gribbin, Khalid Mohamud, and Yana Radenska
